aaztru astro
aba haba
ababor babor
abad abad
abako ábaco
abakondo bogavante
abandonatu abandonado
abaninoa abanino
abantzatu avanzar
abarka abarca
abaxatu bajado
abazera aguacero
abellana avellana
abenka obenque
aberi avería
abertitu advertido
abilaio abalorio
abioi avión
abis aviso
abisme abismo
abito hábito
abogadu abogado
abonadu abonar
absolbatu absolver
abuila aguja
abuleta agujeta
abundatu abundar
abuntun bulto
aburritu aburrido
abusatu abusar
abuztu agosto
adarga adarga
adberbio adverbio
adiba adiva
adikatu fatigar
adio adiós
adjetibo adjetivo
administradore administrador
admiratu admirar
adobo adobo
adoptatu adoptar
adoratu adorar
adornatu adornar
adreilu ladrillo
adret diestro
adu hado
aduana aduana
adulterio adulterio
afaitatu afeitado
afan afan
afekto afecto
afijitu afligir
afrenta afrenta
agaratz agraz
agata agata
agilando aguinaldo
agilanto ailanto
agiloi aguilón
agoa goa
agonia agonía
agot agote
agrabiatu agraviar
agradatu agradar
aguada aguada
aguantatu aguantar
aguardient aguardiente
agudo agudo
aide aire
ailorbe alholva
aingeru ángel
aingira anguila
aingura ancla
aitzakia achaque
aiunke yunque
aiuntamentu ayuntamiento
aiuta ayuda
aje aje
ajustatu ajustar
akitrai alquitrán
akometatu acometer
aktual actual
alabantza alabanza
alabe alabe
alaga alaga
alanbre alambre
alano alano
alasa alacena
alba alba
albaka albahaca
albarda albarda
albiriste albricia
aldamio andamio
aldare altar
alegria alegría
alegustre ligustro
alferiz alférez
alkate alcalde
alkatxofa alcachofa
alkohol alcohol
almadia almadía
almaza almohaza
alpotxa alforja
altu alto
ami hambre
amiatü admirar
amirun almidón
amomo amomo
amorio amor
amürridak hemorroides
anakardo anacardo
anbar ambar
andar andar
anedo aneto
anega fanega
anere anillo
angarilla angarillas
angelu ángulo
angustia angustia
anil añil
animalia animal
animo ánimo
anparatu amparar
anple ámplio
anpola ampola
antapara antepara
antoju antojo
antsia ansia
antxoa anchoa
baba haba
babes pavés
babil pábilo
badia baya
bagats bagasa
baile baile
bainu baño
baka paca
bakailao bacalao
bakantza vacanza
bakazio vacación
bake paz
baketa vaqueta
bal baile
balago bálago
balakatu halagar
balanga palanka
balazo balazo
baldar baldar
baldos baldosa
balekio ballico
balent valiente
balentziana valencia
balesta ballesta
balio valor
balkoi balcón
baloi balón
baltsamina balsamina
balstamo bálsamo
balur baldio
banagloria vanagloria
banda labanda
bandera bandera
bandit bandido
banguardia vanguardia
banilla vainilla
bankero banquero
banket banquete
bano vano
bantzu banzo
bao vaho
bapo guapo
bapore vapore
bara vara
baradisu paraíso
baraila mejilla
barakuilo caracol
baroi barón
barra barra
barrika barrica
barrinoi barreño
barrota barrote
basko vasco
baso vaso
bastoi bastón
bateo baptizo
baxo bazo
baza bazo
bazka pasto
bazko pascua
beaza menaza
bedeinkatu bendecir
bedel bedel
beka beca
bekatu pecado
bela vela
beltxijoi vencejo
benda venda
beneratu venerar
benta venta
bentzario vencejo
berba verbo
berde verde
verdel verderón
berdulaga verdolaga
berenotsu venenoso
berga verga
berilo berilo
berlo berro
berna pierna
berrollo berrojo
besta fiesta
bestia bestia
bestitu vestir
beta veta
betelu abedul
betun betún
bezilla arvejilla
bigira vigilar
bike pez
biku higo
bilaun villano
binagre vinagre
biñer viñador
bioleta violeta
bionbo biombo
birrei virrey
birtuoso virtuoso
birtute virtud
biru hilo
bisera visera
bisiga vejiga
bisita visita
biskotxo bizcocho
bista vista
bitu vid
bixigu besugo
bizarro bizarro
bizio vicio
bizkunte visconde
blanko blanco
bobo bobo
boina boina
bokaran bocací
bola bola
bolbora pólvora
bolinu molino
bonet boina
bormu muermo
borogu proba
borondate voluntad
porru puerro
borta puerta
bortitz fuerte
bostaza mostaza
botere poder
botexa botella
botu voto
braga braga
brager bagra
brasa braza
brentsa prensa
briulet violeta
bukatu acabar
bulda bula
bullizio bullicio
bultza impulso
burgu burgo
burla burla
dabantail delantal
daboekena daboecia
dado dado
daferna taberna
daga daga
dainatu dañar
dama dama
danbor tambor
dantza danza
dardo dardo
dastatu tastar
dauka toca
dauko dauco
ddinddi dinero
debantal delantal
debatitu debatir
debekatu deviedo
deboratu devorar
debot devoto
debru diablo
defaut defecto
degaitu decaer
deklaratu declarar
dekor terco
deliberatu deliberar
demonio demonio
denario denario
denda tienda
dendal pender
denegatu denegar
denge dengue
dentzeju vencejo
deporte deporte
deretxo derecho
dermio término
derrota derrota
desagrada desagradable
desencusa escusa
deskantsautu descansar
deskarat descarado
deskargatu descargar
desobeditu desobedecer
despedida despedida
detxema diezmo
diabru diablo
dialekto dialecto
dibisa divisa
dibursa divorcio
didrakma didracma
dieta dieta
diharu dinero
dilubio diluvio
dindil péndulo
diozesa diocesa
diru dinero
disipula erisipela
disputa disputa
ditare dedal
ditxo dicho
doba adobo
dobloi doblón
doinu tono
dolore dolor
domek domicilio
donabera tenebrae
dono don
doratu dorar
dornu torno
dorpe torpe
dorre torre
dortoka tortuga
dosel dosel
dote dote
dotor doctor
dotrina doctrina
doxa dosis
driza driza
duda duda
dukado ducado
duranzau durazno
durduratu dudar
duro duro
dute té
dutxa ducha
dzurratü zurrar
ebaingeri evangelio
ebanjelio evangelio
ebanu ebano
ebilla hebilla
ebitatu evitar
eburni infierno
edade edad
edarra herrada
ejerzitu ejército
eleja iglesia
eglata elevado
eliza iglesia
enbei envidia
enbite envite
endelgu inteligencia
enea anea
enganatu engañar
enkailatu encallar
enkatxo encachado
enplegatu emplear
entraña entraña
entreditxo entredicho
entresilu entresijo
entterka introvertido
erdeiñu desdeño
eria feria
erida herida
eritu herir
erliebe relieve
erlikia reliquia
erlinga relinga
erlojero relojero
errabia rabia
errada herrada
errain riñon
erralde ralde
errama rama
erramal ramal
erramazko romadizo
erramero romero
errantzio rancio
erreal real
errebentatu reventar
errebes revés
errebista revista
errede red
erreforma reforma
erregalia regalia
erregalo regalo
erregela regla
erregina reina
erregu ruego
erregueldo regüeldo
erreierta reyerta
erreinu reino
errejitu regir
errekoa recua
erremedio remedio
erremuli remolino
errenkura rencor
errenta renta
errenuntzia renuncia
errepasatu repasar
errepikatu repicar
errepresentatu representar
erreprobatu reprobar
errero herrero
erresabio resabio
erresera rasero
errespeto respeto
errespuesta respuesta
erretal retal
erretiro retiro
erretrato retrato
erretxina resina
erreumatismo reumatismo
erreür error
errezelo recelo
errezeta receta
errezo razo
erribete ribete
errierta reyerta
errime firme
erritmo ritmo
errobalo róbalo
erroidu ruido
erron ron
erronda ronda
erronka ronca
erroska rosca
errota rueda
errubi rubí
erruda ruda
errudio rodeo
erruitu ruido
erruso ruso
esentzial esencial
eskabetxe escabeche
eskalera escalera
eskama escama
eskola escuela
eskopeta escopeta
eskoria escoria
eskotera escotera
eskumiku excomunicación
eskutari escudero
espartz esparto
espezia especia
espia espía
espos esposo
espunta esponja
estakura obstáculo
estanko estanco
estarta estrada
estatxa estacha
estepa estepa
estera estera
estereo estéreo
estrazia rastra
estremo extremo
estribo estribo
estropo estrobo
estutxe estuche
etsenplu ejemplo
etxatu echar
etxizero hechicero
eunuko eunuco
expeligo espliego
ezkarpi esparcir
ezkata escama
ezker izquierda
ezkutari escudero
ezpore espolón
estañu estaño
fabore favor
faborezitu favorecer
fabrika fábrica
falcoin halcón
falta falta
fama fama
familia familia
famoso famoso
farnesia parálisis
farol farol
fasmido fásmido
faxa faja
feble débil
fede fe
ferde verde
ferekatu fregar
fermu firme
fetixe fetiche
fidel fiel
fieltro fieltro
figura figura
finjitu fingir
finkatu fincar
firu hilo
fizatu picar
flakezia flaqueza
flako flaco
flauta flauta
foltsü pulso
fonio fonio
forkatx horca
forma forma
forratu forrar
forru puerro
foru fuero
fragua fragua
fraide fraile
frakaso fracaso
frango franco
froga prueba
frontera frontera
fruitu fruti
frunt pronto
fulano fulano
fundadore fundador
funditu hundir
fungo hongo
funts hondo
fusil fusil
futre buitre
futuro futuro
gabai gaviota
gaban gabán
gabarra gabarra
gabiko gaviero
gabillatu agavillar
gabiota gaviota
gabirai gavilán
gailiko vallico
gaiola jaula
gaita gaita
galardo gallardo
galerna galerna
galgo galgo
gallardete gallardete
galtza calza
galtzeta calceta
galtzoin calzón
gambara camara
gamelu camello
gana gana
ganadu ganado
ganbela gamella
ganbon gamón
gangul gandul
gapirio cabrio
garatosa gratusa
garau grano
garazi gracia
garbantzu garbanzo
gardu cardo
garesti caro
gareta jareta
garisuma cuaresma
garita garita
garlinga carlinga
garlopa garlopa
garmu carbón
garnata carnada
garrafoi garrafón
garraio carro
garrazpera carraspera
garrotxa garrocha
garzela cárcel
gastatu gastar
gatabut ataúd
gate cadena
gatibu cautivo
gatu gato
gauza cosa
gazeta gazeta
gaztigatu castigar
gente gente
gerezi cereza
gerla guerra
gertu cierto
giadore guiador
gilbin galbana
gilda guinda
giristino cristiano
giro giro
gobernatu gobernar
goilare cuchara
gol gol
goma goma
gomon común
gorga gorga
gortina cortina
gozo gozo
grasa grasa
greska gresca
grifü grifo
gubia gubia
gurutze cruz
gustu gusto
gutizia codicia
habanera habanera
habi cavidad
habü haba
hare arena
harpa zarpa
hastio hastio
hautatu optar
haxina hacina
hereje hereje
hidropiko hidrópico
hiena hiena
hondo fondo
horka forca
hortu huerto
hospitale hospital
igeltsu yeso
iko higo
imolatu inmolar
injüstu injusto
intsektu insecto
inzesto incesto
ipuro enebro
irme firme
ixtorio historia
ja ya
jaro yaro
jarzia jarcia
jelos celoso
jemitu gemir
jendalla gentalla
jenero género
jipoi jubón
jiratu girar
joane juana
joko juego
jornada jornada
josu jesús
juizio juicio
jünpürü enebro
justu justo
juzgatu juzgar
kaba cueva
kabalier caballero
kafe café
kaka caca
kalabaza calabaza
kalera calera
kalfor galfarro
kamisa camisa
kanbiatu cambiar
kanpeon campeón
kanpero campero
kanpo campo
kanta canta
kantera cantera
kapana cabaña
kapar garrapata
kaparrosa caparrosa
kapuz capus
karabina carabina
karakoil caracol
karan galán
kare cal
karesti caro
karga carga
karpeta carpeta
kartoi cartón
kasko casco
kasto casto
kastor castor
kasu caso
kasuista casuista
kasulla casulla
kate cadena
kaudal caudal
kaza caza
kazuela cazuela
kinto quinto
kirmen firme
kirofano quirófano
kirru cerro
klero clero
koaita cuita
koba cueva
cobla copla
kobre cobre
kodaiña guadaña
kolera cólera
kolerina colerina
kolirio colirio
kolumna columna
komarka comarca
konde conde
kontra contra
kontsul cónsul
kontzilio concilio
koral coral
koraza coraza
koroa corona
korrika corrida
korta corte
kostoma costumbre
kristau cristiano
kritika critica
kuba cuba
kürkürü círculo
ladroi ladrón
lako lagar
lamaza lampaza
lanbas lampazo
landare planta
lapitz lapiz
laratro taladro
laru claro
lege ley
lehoin león
lein llano
leinu linaje
leitu leer
leku lugar
lemami levadura
lentzeju vencejo
lerma merma
letra letra
leu lino
libertate libertad
libertitu divertir
liburu libro
ligeta liga
liho lino
limauts limadura
limoe limón
limü limo
lipizta disputa
lira lira
lirio lirio
lisatu alisar
lisonja lisonja
lixa lija
lizifrina disciplina
llaga llaga
lloroi llorón
loben novén
loia lonja
loragiño orégano
lore flor
loria gloria
lortu lograr
losa losa
lotxa locha
lujo lujo
lupi lubina
lüstre lustre
luto luto
luzitu lucir
luztar avutarda
mabiska malvavisco
madarikatu maldito
mahuka manga
maiatz mayo
maindira mantilla
mainka manga
maiorana mejorana
maister maestro
maiz más
makako macaco
makallau bacalao
makulu báculo
mala mala
malba malva
malsin malsín
malta mata
mana maná
manasta banasta
manera manera
mantal delantal
mantets manto
mantso manso
maratilla taravilla
margin margen
marguriol mercurial
mariñel marinero
marka marca
marka barca
marla marga
marra barra
marrazo marrajo
marti marzo
maskarada mascarada
matorral matorral
matraka matraca
matxorra machorra
maula maula
mazela mejilla
menbro membro
menda menta
mendau vender
mendekoste pentecostés
mendecu venganza
mendu mente
merezi merecer
merkatu mercado
merla marga
mero mero
metxa mecha
meza misa
mezana mesana
naba nava
nabala navalla
nabo nabo
nafilhar navarra
narria narria
natura natura
nausa nausea
negal negro
negrilla negrilla
noa nueva
norde norte
numaka muñeca
obediez inobediencia
oberenda ofrenda
obeta albada
obispo obispo
obra obra
ohore honor
oilo pollo
oküpü ocupar
ola ola
olga holgar
olgantza holganza
olibo olivo
omaia homenaje
ondo fondo
opalo opalo
oprobio oprobio
opütz opus
oradore orador
orai hora
oratorio oratorio
orde orden
ordenatu ordenar
organo órgano
orinke orinque
orio olio
orjat horchata
orka orca
orma forma
ostatu hostal
oste posterior
ostel hotel
ostruka avestruz
oteatu otear
otorgatu otorgar
otsakio obsequio
pabillu pabellón
pabilo pábilo
paborde pavorde
padar padre
padezitu padecer
pagatu pagar
pagu pago
pake paz
pala pala
palazio palacio
palma palma
pantza panza
papera papera
papiro papiro
papirote papirote
para pala
paratu parar
pare par
paret pared
pariente pariente
paro palo
parril barril
pasaia pasaje
rabino rabino
reduxir reducir
refujio refugio
reprobo reprobo
rienda rienda
riskalo níscalo
riskler rosicler
ruborizatu ruborizar
rulo rulo
sagada sagrada
saindu santo
sakanabo sacanabo
saka saco
salbatu salvar
salmoi salmón
saltsa salsa
saltsero salsero
satxixoi salchichón
sasoi sazón
sereno sereno
siklo siclo
siku seco
sillatu sellar
sillu sello
siluro siluro
sino signo
sisa sisa
sobera sobra
soil solo
solt soltero
soslai soslayo
soto sótano
subdiakono subdiácono
subjugatu subyugar
sufritu sufrir
suplitu suplir
tabako tabaco
takoi tacón
talo talo
tamaiño tamaño
tartago tártago
taula tabla
teatro teatro
teila teja
teitu dedo
tejabana tejavana
tekla tecla
tellina telina
tentatu tentar
terna trenza
tinta tinta
torbisko torvisco
tornu torno
trantze trance
trezeba pesebre
tritikale triticale
trofeo trofeo
trokel troquel
tumulto tumulto
tusteno tungsteno
txamaraska chamarasca
txamelote chamelote
txamiza chamiza
txamorra chamorra
txarol charol
txarro jarro
txikot chicote
txiko chico
txillatu chillar
txinizta hiniesta
txuzo chuzo
ule hule
ulertu oler
ultraje ultraje
ulzera úlcera
ünbüdü rmbudo
ütis util
utra ultra
xabadera lavadero
xaboi jabón
xahu sano
xalma salma
xapoin capón
xarbo sargo
xarxia jarcia
xeru gerón
xibalet caballete
xoza choza
zabila sábila
zabor zaborra
zadura satura
zagita sagita
zaldu sato
zapo sapo
zarika sauce
zarpa zarpa
zartagin sartén
zaurin zahorí
zeatika ciática
zeditu ceder
zedoin sedal
zedro cedro
zeguta cicuta
zeinu señal
zekuru siglo
zelata celada
zelo celo
zenteno centeno
zepo cepo
zera cera
zerka cerca
zetro cetro
zierne cierne
zifra cifra
zigarro cigarro
zikuta cicuta
zilantro cilantro
zimitz chinche
zirga sirga
zisne cisne
zitola citola
zopa sopa
zuku jugo
zurkulu círculo